# 1D-Pollutant-Migration
Done using C language, this Machine Problem aims to generate a model describing the migration of 6 contaminant species through a single clay liner system sanitary landfill using the Forward-Time Center-Space and crank-Nicholson methods.

Abstract:
One application of parabolic partial differential equations that would be of great interest in Civil Engineering is how we can describe the transport of various hazardous contaminants in a liner of a sanitary landfill. This Machine Problem aims to generate a model describing the migration of 6 contaminant species through the 3-meter liner of a single clay liner system sanitary landfill using the Forward-Time Center-Space and crank-Nicholson methods. Using the one-dimensional advection-dispersion-reaction equation and finite differential equations, the group were able to generate numerical models that could be used to program and find solutions to the problem. After graphing the concentration through the 3-m depth of the liner of all contaminants from 0 to 60 years, using the step sizes Î”ğ‘¡=0.5 ğ‘¦ğ‘Ÿğ‘ . and Î”ğ‘§=0.2 ğ‘š, it was also found out that the contaminants from lowest to highest concentration were: Magnesium, Calcium, DCM, Sodium, Acetone, and Chloride. Chloride was also found to be the first contaminant specie to penetrate the 3-m liner. The two methods were then compared by tabulating their concentrations at 20 years, verifying that concentrations in the Crank-Nicholson method are slightly higher than that of the FTCS method. Finally, it was proved that Crank-Nicholson method is better and more accurate than Forward-Time Center-Space method because it is unconditionally stable and poses no restriction unlike the FTCS method.
